The Denice Denton Emerging Leader ABIE Award recognizes a junior faculty member for high-quality research and significant positive impact on diversity. Recipients are honored by the technical women’s community at the Grace Hopper Celebration and invited to give a presentation on their work and accomplishments at the conference.
Denice Denton 
The Denice Denton Emerging Leader ABIE Award honors the life and career of Professor Denice Denton (1959 – 2006), a woman engineering faculty member and the first female dean of a school of engineering in a major US research university. She worked throughout her life to give minorities a voice and to make engineering attractive to women and minorities, strongly promoted diversity in higher education, and helped many people break barriers and find their path in life.

Selection Criteria
The award is presented each year to a junior tenure-track (non-tenured) faculty member (under the age of 40) at an academic or research institution.

Potential nominees are:

Pursuing high-quality research in any field of engineering or physical sciences
Demonstrating a significant leadership capability
Contributing significantly to promote diversity in his/her environment. Please provide details about outreach activities, including impact
For the nomination to be considered complete, all the required fields (denoted by red text) must be filled in. You may, however, save a partial nomination in draft form by clicking on the "Save as Draft" button below. When you have all the required fields entered, you may submit it as completed nomination. If you have questions please contact awards@anitaborg.org.


Nominee's Name
Nominee's Name

Nominee Information
Relationship to Nominator	
First/Given Names & MI
	Last/Family Name

Email
	Company/Institution 
	Professional Title

Address 1
	Address 2
	City

State/Province
	Postal Code
	Country

Primary Telephone
	Alternate Telephone
	Fax

US Residency	
Nationality	
Letters of Reference
Please submit at least two letters of reference from professional contacts in PDF format.

Letter of Reference 1	
Letter of Reference 2	
Letter of Reference 3	
Summary
Brief description of the nominee and their work. The Selection Committee will use this summary for identification purposes.

Summary (Maximum 30 words)
0 words

Resume/CV
*Acceptable formats for upload are: PDF.

Resume/CV

Statement of Merit
Please upload a 2-3 page Statement of Merit. The statement must include a short bio of the nominated person and specifically address the following:
Explain in details the nominee's outreach activities
Describe the impact and how it was measured.
Was the action taken with respect to a specific situation?
What motivated the nominee(s) to take action?
Did he/she encounter any significant challenges?
*Acceptable formats for upload are: PDF.

Statement of Merit

Submissions close in 12 days, 8 hours, 33 minutes

Please Read: A confirmation email will be sent to you when this submission is received; keep this email as a receipt. If you do not get this email, it is likely that your submission has not been received. Verify that you can see it on your "My Submissions" page, and if not, resubmit. It is your responsibility to confirm that the submission has been received. 

You will receive a confirmation email when saving a draft. If you do not receive this email, it is likely that your draft has not been received. Verify that you can see it on your "My Submissions" page, and if not, resubmit. You must submit as completed in order for your submission to be evaluated. 

You can update this submission until submissions close.